OSSM-8185: Add docs for Running OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side (#143)
openshift-service-mesh/sail-operator: docs/ossm/README.md

# Table of Contents

- [Running OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side](#running-ossm-2-and-ossm-3-side-by-side)

# Running OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side
This section describes how to run OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side in one cluster without interfering with each other.

> It's not OSSM 2 -> OSSM 3 migration guide.

Reviewer: Maybe change this to:
**Note:** It's not OSSM 2 -> OSSM 3 migration guide.

Author: We can add the link later. Not sure if it make sense to add broken link now

To better understand steps described here, it's recommended to read OSSM 2 [deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.17/html/service_mesh/service-mesh-2-x#ossm-deployment-models) and upstream Istio [Multiple Control Planes](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/install/multiple-controlplanes/) documentation. This document assumes OSSM 2.6 is already running and the goal is to install OSSM 3.0.

> ## Cluster-Wide (Single Tenant) mesh deployment model

Reviewer: We can add here a brief description like:
```
The starting point for this point is a OCP cluster with version 4.16 or higher and with Cluster-Wide single tenant depoyment model, please refer to this documentation to be sure that is your deployment type.
```

Author: We will support both multi and single tenant so we have chapters for both. Not sure if we need to include OCP version, it should be mentioned in support matrix.

### Required OSSM 2 changes

> 1. configure discovery selectors in your SMCP CR:

Reviewer: you can add here the link to the docs where discover selector are described or add the entire path of where the discover selector needs to be added, for example `spec.xxxx`

Author: Added.

        meshConfig:
            discoverySelectors:
            - matchExpressions:
                - key: maistra.io/member-of
                    operator: Exists
        runtime:
            components:
            pilot:
                container:
                env:

>                     ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING: 'true'

Reviewer: You need to mark this as code with ```. I think is easier later to convert this later to the Openshift documentation

Author: Done, thanks.

> ### OSSM 3 installation

Reviewer: I think instead of calling this step OSSM Installation, you can this step `procedure.` This matches the current openshift documentation structure

Author: Do you mean to have 'OSSM 3 procedure' instead of 'OSSM 3 installation'?  Installation seems clearer to me.

Reviewer: Yes

1. install `Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh 3` operator

> 1. create `IstioCNI` resource in `istio-cni` namespace

Reviewer: Maybe add here a pending note: `add here the link on How to install the istio-cni resource` or add the link directly to the current documentation: https://docs.openshift.com/service-mesh/3.0.0tp1/install/ossm-installing-openshift-service-mesh.html#ossm-creating-istiocni-resource_ossm-creating-istio-cni-project-using-console

Author: I added link to downstream doc for installation.

1. create following `Istio` resource in `istio-system3` (must be a different namespace than a namespace running OSSM 2). Make sure to use discovery selectors which are ignoring OSSM 2 namespaces and NOT to use `default` name for `Istio` resource. You can optionally restrict discovered namespaces even more. See upstream Istio documentation for `discoverySelectors` usage.

        kind: Istio
        apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
        metadata:
        name: ossm3
        spec:
        namespace: istio-system3
        values:
            meshConfig:
            discoverySelectors:
                - matchExpressions:
                    - key: maistra.io/member-of
                    operator: DoesNotExist
        updateStrategy:
            inactiveRevisionDeletionGracePeriodSeconds: 30
            type: InPlace

>         version: v1.23.0

Reviewer: Same here

# Table of Contents

- [Running OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side](#running-ossm-2-and-ossm-3-side-by-side)

> # Running OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side

Reviewer 2: +1

> # Running OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side

Reviewer 2: Just an FYI that "OSSM" isn't a public acronym we can use in product docs. It's not a big deal here, as the doc team uses a parameter for the product name so that it's easy for them to do search/replaces (if it ever changes), but perhaps expand it the first time you use it "Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh (OSSM)".

Author: Done

> # Running OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side

Author: Done, thank you.

This section describes how to run OSSM 2 and OSSM 3 side by side in one cluster without interfering with each other.
> **_NOTE:_** It's not OSSM 2 -> OSSM 3 migration guide.

To better understand steps described here, it's recommended to read OSSM 2 [deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.17/html/service_mesh/service-mesh-2-x#ossm-deployment-models) and upstream Istio [Multiple Control Planes](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/install/multiple-controlplanes/) documentation. This document assumes OSSM 2.6 is already running and the goal is to install OSSM 3.0.

Depending on your OSSM 2 model, follow steps described in next chapters.

## Cluster-Wide (Single Tenant) mesh deployment model

> ### Required OSSM 2 changes

Reviewer 2: Maybe add "...when running in cluster-wide mode" to the title to make it clearer that it is only for cluster wide mode.

> To be able to run OSSM 2 in cluster-wide mode with OSSM 3, it's required to make configuration changes on OSSM 2 side as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To be able to run OSSM 2 in cluster-wide mode with OSSM 3, it's required to make configuration changes to ensure that the two meshes do not collide.
```

1. install `Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh 3` operator
1. create `IstioCNI` resource in `istio-cni` namespace
1. create following `Istio` resource in `istio-system3` (must be a different namespace than a namespace running OSSM 2). Make sure to use discovery selectors which are ignoring OSSM 2 namespaces and NOT to use `default` name for `Istio` resource. You can optionally restrict discovered namespaces even more. Configuration shown in the example only ignores OSSM 2 namespaces but all other namespaces will be part of OSSM 3 mesh. See upstream Istio documentation for [discoverySelectors](https://istio.io/v1.19/docs/setup/install/multiple-controlplanes/) usage.
    ```yaml
    kind: Istio
    apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
    metadata:
    name: ossm3
    spec:
      namespace: istio-system3
      values:
        meshConfig:
          discoverySelectors:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: maistra.io/member-of
              operator: DoesNotExist
      updateStrategy:
        inactiveRevisionDeletionGracePeriodSeconds: 30
        type: InPlace
      version: v1.23.0
    ```
1. Deploy your workloads and label the namespaces with `istio.io/rev=ossm3` label

> > **_NOTE:_** Do NOT use `istio-injection=enabled` label for your OSSM 3 workload namespaces unless you have changed `spec.memberSelectors` in `ServiceMeshMemberRoll`.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can have a more detailed "verification" step here that involves creating a workload in a 2.x namespace and creating a workload in a 3.x namespace and verifying that they are talking to the correct controlplane.

Author: Done, thank you. Added step to use `istioctl ps`

> ## Multitenant deployment model

Reviewer 2: Suggestion - most users are likely using multi-tenant mode, as it is the default. I would put this first and include (default) in the title. 

I think there are probably many users that didn't think about this at all, just created a mesh using the defaults in the instructions and they don't talk about "multitenant" anywhere.

Author: Done, thank you.
